hey I just got some scientifically
informative fan mail from a fellow who
knows a lot about the behavior and
biology of snakes
he heard the anecdote mentioned in my
recent video about a Buddhist monk who
took a nap in the jungle sitting on a
lawn chair and he that had a Python or
some kind of giant snake come out of the
jungle and tried to devour his hand this
guy raises doubts about whether or not
the story was true ie suggesting that
the monk may have been exaggerating the
story or making it up out of thin air
now the first thing here I told that
story very very quickly in my earlier
video obviously the snake did not think
it was attempting to devour human being
obviously this guy's hand was was
hanging off the side of a lawn chair
basically you know he fell asleep with
his his arm dangling in a certain way
and from the snakes perspective it
thought the hand was a much smaller
mammal that also explains how the story
ends auntie climatically because the
snake gives up its grip on this guy's
hand and and crawls away now this fellow
is suggesting to me that the only way
you could get this kind of response out
of a Python would be if his hands
smelled like a rat or mice or some other
typical prey item for a Python now I
have to say I find that interesting
enough suggestion making short video
response to it of course it's possible
that this monk was indeed handling rats
because he was living out in remote
places I have to say though it is even
more possible that this monastery was
keeping pets of some other kind I have
been to Buddhist monasteries where they
had pet rabbits I consider that kind of
unethical and inappropriate for a
Buddhist monastery but they did they had
had pet rabbits living in a cage
famously some Buddhist monasteries have
pet Tigers or pet elephants something
like this that
a lot of attention whether they are
domesticated or not there are
monasteries that have pet monkeys in the
tropics that have monkeys in captivity
to some extent I've been to another
monastery that had wild monkeys living
around it harassing the monks and trying
to steal the food was just quite
memorable having monkeys break into the
monastery try to grab food out of the
kitchen and run out mmm and whether or
not it's okay under the terabyte of
Buddhist monastic code I remember the
Buddhist monk rent that place picked up
a wooden stick and and beat a monkey and
ran outside and raised up the stick like
he was Tarzan trying to prove his
superiority over the monkeys hilarious
situation in many ways hilarious and
incongruous so yeah I just say of course
it's possible that this story I was told
was complete fiction but I doubt it
I've I've heard a lot of strange stories
coming out of Buddhist monasteries of
this kind basically monks coping with
the wildlife and for this monk living in
these remote this remote locale I doubt
there was a lot of pressure on him to
bathe or to keep his hands clean and his
hands probably smelled like something
whether that was a rat or a rabbit or
maybe some other pet they were keeping
there obviously they could have a cat
see I don't know if your hands smell
like you've been petting a cat would
that attract a Python I don't know but
as always the simplest explanation would
just be meat right it's completely
hypocritical but basically zero of these
terabyte of Buddhist monks are
vegetarian or vegan I've written an
article about that I can provide a link
the status of veganism within Buddhism
is not what you might hope it to be in
2016 it's much weaker than the status of
veganism within Hinduism which is itself
a very interesting story to talk about
so maybe his hand smelled simply like
the meat of a dead animal he'd been
handling in preparing food
now in terms of the plausibility of the
other basic assumption here that there
are giant pythons in those jungles I do
have a personal experience a personal
encounter to relate that for me is is
very sad and filled me with a great
sense of contempt for my fellow human
beings when I was living in the last of
the jungles up on the loud Burmese
border I saw a giant Python and it was a
giant Python basically being slowly
tortured to death by human beings now I
say the last of the jungle because I was
witnessing the deforestation as it
happened in front of me and all around
me as you may or may not know the most
efficient way for human beings to get
rid of the jungle they do cut things
down with an axe but they also just pour
gasoline on the ground and start
lighting the jungle on fire now this
snake that was indeed a a giant Python
obvious I have no idea what species it
was I'm using the word Python in a an
unscientific way but to my eye it was a
legitimate giant Python it was certainly
big enough to very casually swallow a
human hand it could do that with no
trouble at all this Python had been
badly injured by one of these fires by
farmers who were clear cutting the
forests and then when they found this
Python in the fire writhing in agony
they ran over and grabbed it alive but
with a lot of its skin burned off and
damage strapped it to a metal pole and
then carried it a full day's march
through the jungle to try to sell it as
meat as exotic meat and I was in the
tiny town you can't even say Tallinn I
was in a house on the edge of the jungle
where the jungle connected to the trade
route that goes down the Mekong I mean
you know the population there was
basically one house with a local Thai
little guy who paid them a couple of
dollars maybe like honestly maybe it was
one dollar for this Python and these
were the guys selling the Python they
were legitimately tribal indigenous
people they were guys living in
conditions over they they did not really
they did not own clothes made in a
Factory you know they were they were
nearly naked themselves and living in
very very primitive conditions and they
had come down out of the remote
mountains this point of contact with
industrialized civilization to sell this
dying snake now why didn't they have the
humanitarian impulse to at least kill
the snake before before selling it why
had they strapped it and by the way that
we was not strapped with plastic oh no
these are real third-world jungle
conditions they had strapped it down
with rat an and you know jungle fibers
that you collect from the trees they had
strapped this snake down alive because
there's no refrigeration out there as
soon as meat dies it starts rotting and
starts decomposing so they were keeping
this giant snake in absolute misery and
the people who came to look at it to
consider buying it including my fellow
employees and the supposed humanitarian
NGO what did they do to get a reaction
of the snake they picked up a stick and
they poked the snake including when the
snake opened its mouth poking it on the
tongue for me this is one of many
examples of the casual cruelty of my
fellow human beings that filled me with
contempt as I've said in earlier videos
I mean we can talk about the politics of
compassion but if we're really keeping
it real hundred percent on us then we
also have to talk about the politics of
contempt